Over the course of these tutorials, you created an EC2 instance in AWS, an HCP
Terraform workspace, and a GitHub repository.
In this tutorial, you will destroy the EC2 instance and delete your HCP
Terraform workspace.
Tip
If you plan to complete later tutorials, destroy the
resources
but not the workspace in this tutorial.
Destroy infrastructure
Now that you have provisioned and changed infrastructure with HCP Terraform,
the final stage of your infrastructure's lifecycle is to destroy it.
HCP Terraform allows you to destroy the infrastructure you have provisioned
as a part of the standard workflow.
To destroy the infrastructure you provisioned in these tutorials, go
to your workspace in the HCP Terraform UI. Navigate to your workspace's
Settings
, then to
Destruction and Deletion
.
This page offers two operations:
Queue destroy plan
destroys all
infrastructure managed by the workspace.
Delete from HCP Terraform
deletes your workspace from HCP Terraform without destroying the infrastructure the workspace manages.
Note
Deleting a workspace does not destroy its infrastructure. For example, if you were to delete this
workspace, the AWS EC2 instance you provisioned earlier would still exist.
Queue a destroy plan
Click the red
Queue destroy plan
button.
HCP Terraform will prompt you to enter your workspace name before you can queue a destroy plan.
Enter your workspace name and queue the plan.
Destroy the infrastructure
As it does with all plans, HCP Terraform will ask you to
Confirm and Apply
the plan. Do so now
to destroy your EC2 instance.
After a few minutes, the apply step should complete successfully.
Verify that Terraform destroyed the EC2 instance by visiting the
AWS web console
in the region where you created it. The configuration defaults
to using the
N. California/us-west-1
region.
Delete the workspace (optional)
Tip
If you plan to continue to later tutorials and
your organization does not contain other workspaces, do
not
destroy the
workspace created.
If you do not plan to run these tutorials again and want to keep your HCP
Terraform organization clean, you can delete the workspace you created. HCP
Terraform does not limit the number of workspaces you have or charge per workspace,
so whether you delete the workspace is up to you.
To delete the workspace, return to the
Settings -> Destruction
& Deletion
page, and click the red
Delete from HCP Terraform
button.
HCP Terraform will prompt you to enter your workspace name before you can click
Delete workspace
. Input the workspace name and click the button to delete the workspace.
Next steps
In these tutorials you used HCP Terraform to provision, change, and destroy
infrastructure using both the CLI and VCS-driven workflows. Now you are ready
to learn more about developing Terraform configurations. Get started with using
Terraform to manage resources on your preferred cloud platform:
Terraform CLI with AWS
Terraform CLI with Azure
Terraform CLI with GCP
At the end of the tutorials listed above, you will revisit managing your configuration using the CLI-driven HCP Terraform workflow.
Learn more about the concepts you used in these tutorials by
exploring the documentation
.
To explore more of HCP Terraform's features, continue to the following tutorials:
Organize workspaces with projects
Manage variable sets in HCP Terraform
Enforce policy with Sentinel
Share modules in the private registry
Use health assessments to detect infrastructure drift
Connect workspaces with run triggers
Was this tutorial helpful?
Yes
No
Previous
VCS-driven workflow
Next Collection
Professional Prep
This tutorial also appears in:
9 tutorials
Get Started - HCP Terraform
Collaborate on version-controlled configuration using HCP Terraform. Follow this track to build, change, and destroy infrastructure using remote runs and state.
Terraform
Stay Informed
Sign up to be notified with updates to the HashiCorp Product Certifications program and to receive news and information about HashiCorp products.
Email
*
Send me news about HashiCorp products, releases and events.
By submitting this form, you acknowledge and agree that HashiCorp will process your personal information in accordance with the
Privacy Policy
.
Submit