In this tutorial, you will learn about HCP Terraform, sign up for an
account, and create an organization.
What is HCP Terraform?
Terraform
is an infrastructure as code tool
that lets you define and manage infrastructure resources through human-readable
configuration files. Terraform allows you to use a consistent workflow over
your infrastructure lifecycle, regardless of the resource provider. The
infrastructure as code workflow lets your declaratively manage a variety of
services and automate your changes to them, reducing the risk of human error
through manual operations.
HCP
Terraform
builds on these features by managing
Terraform runs in a consistent and reliable environment instead of on your
local machine. It securely stores state and secret data, and can connect to
version control systems so that you can develop your
infrastructure using a workflow similar to application development.
The HCP Terraform UI provides a detailed view into the resources managed by a
Terraform project and gives enhanced visibility into each Terraform operation.
HCP Terraform also has a private registry for sharing your
organization's Terraform modules and providers. Paid features include access controls for
approving changes to infrastructure, detailed policy controls for governing the
contents of Terraform configurations, cost estimates for runs, and more.
HCP Terraform helps you collaborate on each step of your infrastructure
development process. For example, each time you plan a new change, your team
can review and approve the plan before you apply it. It also automatically
locks state during operations to prevent concurrent modifications that may corrupt the state file.
For more details on HCP Terraform features and plans, visit the
feature overview
and
pricing page
.
Workflows
In HCP Terraform, your resources are organized by workspaces,
which contain your resource definitions, environment and input variables, and state files. A Terraform operation occurs within a
workspace, and Terraform uses the configuration and state for that
workspace to modify your infrastructure.
HCP Terraform supports three workflows for your Terraform runs:
The CLI-driven workflow, which uses Terraform's standard CLI tools to execute runs in HCP Terraform.
The UI/Version Control System(VCS)-driven workflow, in which changes pushed to version control repositories trigger runs in the associated workspace.
The API-driven workflow, which allows you to create tooling to interact with the HCP Terraform API programmatically.
These tutorials will introduce the CLI and VCS-driven
workflows. To learn more about the API-driven workflow, refer to
HCP
Terraform's API Documentation
.
The CLI-driven workflow
In the CLI-driven workflow, you initiate Terraform operations in your Terminal,
and use HCP Terraform's ephemeral remote execution environments for your
operations. HCP Terraform securely stores any input and environment variables
needed by your configuration, as well as your current and previous state files.
The CLI-driven workflow enables collaboration and allows you to leverage
the stability, security, and enhanced visiblity of HCP Terraform while still
using the same familiar Terraform workflow, with minimal additional configuration.
The VCS-driven workflow
For the VCS-driven workflow, you must configure VCS access and create your
workspace, then associate it with a repository containing your Terraform
configuration. You can then configure your workspace to create speculative
plans for any Pull Requests, which allows your team to review how the changes
would modify infrastructure. Any merges to your main branch then trigger
Terraform runs to implement your changes.
Create an account
Tip
If you have a HashiCorp Cloud Platform (HCP) account, use your HCP account credentials to log in to HCP Terraform and go to to the
next step
. If you already have an HCP Terraform account, go to to the
next step
.
Visit
https://app.terraform.io/signup/account
and follow the prompts to create a free HCP Terraform account.
When you sign up, you will receive an email asking you to confirm your
email address. Confirm your email address before moving on. When you click the link to confirm your email address, HCP Terraform will send you to the
Organizations
page. Click
Create organization
.
Create an organization
The next screen will prompt you to create a new organization. Creating
organizations of up to 5 users is free, and the members you add to the
organization will be able to collaborate on your workspaces and share private
modules and providers.
Tip
Create a tutorial-specific
organization to manage the workspaces you create while running HashiCorp tutorials. This will give you a
convenient, isolated sandbox environment in which to learn Terraform.
Enter an organization name and email address. You can use the same email
address that you used for your account.
Note
If you want to join an existing organization, give the
organization's administrator the email address you used to create an account.
They will be able to send you an invite.
Click
Create organization
. In later tutorials, you will create and use a workspace within your new HCP Terraform organization.
Next Steps
In this tutorial, you created an HCP Terraform account and organization. For more information about organizations and their relationship to workspaces, teams, and users, refer to the
Organizations documentation
.
Now that you have created an account and organization, you are ready to authenticate and begin using HCP Terraform.
Was this tutorial helpful?
Yes
No
Previous
Migrate state
Next
Credentials variable set
This tutorial also appears in:
9 tutorials
Get Started - HCP Terraform
Collaborate on version-controlled configuration using HCP Terraform. Follow this track to build, change, and destroy infrastructure using remote runs and state.
Terraform
Stay Informed
Sign up to be notified with updates to the HashiCorp Product Certifications program and to receive news and information about HashiCorp products.
Email
*
Send me news about HashiCorp products, releases and events.
By submitting this form, you acknowledge and agree that HashiCorp will process your personal information in accordance with the
Privacy Policy
.
Submit