Terraform plugin framework
The Terraform plugin framework is an SDK that you can use to develop Terraform providers. Learn how the plugin framework works with Terraform core.
The plugin framework is HashiCorp’s recommended way develop to Terraform Plugins on
protocol version 6
or
protocol version 5
.
We recommend using the framework to develop new providers because it offers significant advantages as compared to
Terraform Plugin SDKv2
. We also recommend migrating existing providers to the framework when possible. Refer to
Plugin Framework Benefits
for higher level details about how the framework makes provider development easier and
Plugin Framework Features
for a detailed functionality comparison between the SDKv2 and the framework.
Get Started
Try the
Terraform Plugin Framework tutorials
.
Clone the
terraform-provider-scaffolding-framework
template repository on GitHub.
Key Concepts
Provider Servers
encapsulate all Terraform plugin details and handle all calls for provider, resource, and data source operations by implementing the
Terraform Plugin Protocol
. They are implemented as binaries that the Terraform CLI downloads, starts, and stops.
Providers
are the top level abstraction that define the available resources and data sources for practitioners to use and may accept its own configuration, such as authentication information.
Schemas
define available fields for provider, resource, or provisioner configuration block, and give Terraform metadata about those fields.
Resources
are an abstraction that allow Terraform to manage infrastructure objects, such as a compute instance, an access policy, or disk. Providers act as a translation layer between Terraform and an API, offering one or more resources for practitioners to define in a configuration.
Data Sources
are an abstraction that allow Terraform to reference external data. Providers have data sources that tell Terraform how to request external data and how to convert the response into a format that practitioners can interpolate.
Functions
are an abstraction that allow Terraform to reference computational logic. Providers can implement their own custom logic functions to augment the Terraform configuration language
built-in functions
.
Test and Publish
Learn to write
acceptance tests
for your provider.
Learn to
publish your provider
to the Terraform Registry.
Combine or Translate
Combine your provider with other SDKv2 providers
using
protocol version 5
.
Combine your provider with other framework providers
using
protocol version 6
.
Edit this page on GitHub