Providers overview
Providers are how Terraform integrates with any upstream API.
The Terraform Registry is the main source for publicly available Terraform providers. It offers a browsable and searchable interface for finding providers, and makes it possible for Terraform CLI to automatically install any of the providers it hosts.
If you want Terraform to support a new infrastructure service, you can create your own provider using Terraform's Go SDK. Once you've developed a provider, you can use the Registry to share it with the rest of the community.
Using Providers From the Registry
The Registry is directly integrated with Terraform. To use any provider from the Registry, all you need to do is require it within your Terraform configuration; Terraform can then automatically install that provider when initializing a working directory, and your configuration can take advantage of any resources implemented by that provider.
For more information, see:
Configuration Language: Provider Requirements
Provider Tiers & Namespaces
Terraform providers are published and maintained by a variety of sources, including HashiCorp, HashiCorp Technology Partners, and the Terraform community. The Registry uses tiers and badges to denote the source of a provider. Additionally, namespaces are used to help users identify the organization or publisher responsible for the integration, as shown in the table below.
Tier
Description
Namespace
Official
Official providers are owned and maintained by HashiCorp
hashicorp
Partner
Partner providers are written, maintained, validated and published by third-party companies against their own APIs. To earn a partner provider badge the partner must participate in the
HashiCorp Technology Partner Program
.
Third-party organization, e.g.
mongodb/mongodbatlas
Community
Community providers are published to the Terraform Registry by individual maintainers, groups of maintainers, or other members of the Terraform community.
Maintainer’s individual or organization account, e.g.
DeviaVir/gsuite
Archived
Archived Providers are Official or Partner Providers that are no longer maintained by HashiCorp or the community. This may occur if an API is deprecated or interest was low.
hashicorp
or third-party
Partner Provider Development Program
Our Provider Development Program sets the standards for publishing providers and modules and marks approved providers and modules with a
Partner
badge. Refer to the
Program Details
for details about how to join and program requirements.
Edit this page on GitHub