Publish to the Terraform registry
Learn how to publish Terraform providers, modules, and policies to the public Terraform registry.
The
Terraform Registry
is an interactive resource for discovering a wide selection of integrations (providers), configuration packages (modules), and security rules (policies) for use with Terraform. The Registry includes solutions developed by HashiCorp, third-party vendors, and our Terraform community. Our goal with the Registry is to provide plugins to manage any infrastructure API, pre-made modules to quickly configure common infrastructure components, and examples of how to write quality Terraform code.
The Terraform Registry is integrated
directly into Terraform
so you can directly specify providers and modules. Anyone can publish and consume providers, modules, and policies on the public
Terraform Registry
. To publish private modules within your organization, you can use a
private registry
or
reference repositories and other sources directly
.
Use the navigation to the left to learn more about using the Terraform Registry.
Navigating the Registry
The registry has a number of different categories for modules, providers, and policies to help with navigating the large number of available options. Select a provider or module card to learn more, filter results to a
specific tier
, or use the search field at the top of the Registry. Search supports keyboard navigation.
User Account
Individuals interested in publishing can use a GitHub account to sign in to the Terraform Registry. Click the
Sign-in
button, and follow the login prompts to authorize the use of your GitHub account and sign in. Refer to the specific instructions for publishing
modules
,
providers
, and
policy libraries
.
If you are an HCP Terraform user and want to publish and manage modules or providers in the public registry, you can connect a GitHub account to an HCP Terraform organization, letting members collectively manage that account’s public registry artifacts. Refer to
Namespaces
for more information.
Getting Help
The providers, modules, and policies available on the Terraform Registry are maintained either directly by HashiCorp, by trusted HashiCorp partners, or members of the Terraform community Refer to
Provider Tiers and Namespaces
for details. To create issues and contributions in GitHub, click the
Report an issue
link on the provider, module, or policy library's details page:
If you are having trouble publishing new content to the Terraform Registry,
refer to the Publishing FAQ
for answers to some of the most commonly-encountered problems.
If you have general questions or issues about using the Terraform Registry, you may
submit a request
. Note that there is currently a delay in response times, and we are unable to guarantee a response to all requests. If you are a HashiCorp Technology Partner, our Alliances team will get back to you with a timeline.
Edit this page on GitHub