Namespace overview
Namespaces let you connect a GitHub account to an HCP Terraform organization, letting organization members collectively manage that GitHub account’s public registry artifacts.
Every artifact in the
public Terraform registry
connects to a namespace that matches the name of the GitHub account that published that artifact. For example, the
iam
provider
is published by the
terraform-aws-modules
namespace
, which corresponds to an
Github organization
account with the same name.
You can claim a namespace in HCP Terraform by linking a GitHub account to an organization, claiming that account’s namespace. Each GitHub account namespace can belong to one HCP Terraform organization.
The public and private registries
The
Terraform registry
is a public interactive resource for discovering integrations and configuration packages. Anyone can publish and consume the artifacts in the public registry. An organization in HCP Terraform has a
private registry
that allows members to share modules and providers privately with other members of their organization.
An organization's private registry is separate from its public registry artifacts and workflows. For example, an organization owner can publish a new module to the public registry from one of their organization's claimed namespaces, and that module is not automatically included in that organization's private registry. If an organization member wants to use the newly published module, they must follow the the usual steps to
add that module to their private registry
.
Manage namespaces and registry artifacts
Note
Namespaces do not support publishing or managing
policy libraries
in the public registry. To publish or manage policy libraries with a namespace, continue to use the
existing registry workflows
.
Linking a GitHub account to an HCP Terraform organization lets organization members collectively manage the linked GitHub account’s
public registry artifacts
and the namespace itself.
Organization owners can manage claimed namespaces and specify which team members can interact with an organization's namespaces by setting
organization-level permissions
to either
Manage public modules
or
Manage public providers
.
Organization owners and teams with
Manage public modules
and
Manage public providers
permissions can perform the following actions for every namespaces in their organization:
Publish new providers or modules
to the public registry under a namespace
Publish new versions
of existing public registry artifacts
Add GPG keys
to a namespace
Resync
a namespace’s public registry artifacts
View usage metrics
for public registry artifacts
Delete an artifact or an artifact version
Edit this page on GitHub