Terraform Enterprise deployment overview
This topic provides an overview of the Terraform Enterprise deployment process. For information about deploying Terraform Enterprise using the Replicated platform, refer to
Deploy Terraform Enterprise to Replicated
. If your existing Terraform Enterprise instances were deployed to Replicated,
refer to our migration guide
for instructions on how to deploy the platform to one of the supported runtimes.
Introduction
Terraform Enterprise runs in containerized instances that support flexible deployment options for self-hosted environments. You can deploy Terraform Enterprise to the following non-Replicated runtimes:
Docker
Kubernetes
OpenShift
Nomad
Podman
Additionally, Terraform Enterprise can be deployed on either AMD or ARM system architectures as of 1.0.0.
You can configure Terraform Enterprise to run as a self-contained application that manages the associated data storage or as an integrated installation that connects to externally-managed data storage systems. Refer to
Data storage overview
for additional information.
You can operate Terraform Enterprise in networks that use IPv4, IPv6, and a mix of IP versions. Refer to
Configure network access
for additional information. When using IPv6-only addresses, some integrations are limited. Refer to the following topics for additional information:
Connect to VCS providers
AWS provider
documentation in the Terraform registry
Configure two-factor authentication
Add public providers and modules
Manage team notifications
Terraform module workflow
HashiCorp provides the following Terraform modules in the public Terraform registry to help you deploy Terraform Enterprise:
Amazon Web Services EC2
Amazon Web Services EKS
Microsoft Azure VM
Microsoft Azure AKS
Google Cloud GCE
Google Cloud GKE
Each official module above aligns with HashiCorp Validated Designs, HashiCorp's official recommendations based on extensive experience working with various organizations to deploy our solutions. To learn more about using HashiCorp Validated Designs, contact your account team.
Manual workflow
Terraform Enterprise supports several container runtime environments and operating modes for managing data that provide you with flexible deployment options. To deploy Terraform Enterprise, create a configuration file that specifies your deployment settings, complete any external prerequisites associated with your deployment configuration, then use your runtime interface to run the installation.
Prepare the deployment environment
Create a host instance on your cloud provider and install a runtime environment. You must also configure network access, assign a DNS hostname, and install the TLS certificate. If you intend to connect Terraform Enterprise to an external Vault server or PostgreSQL database, you must also configure and launch those systems. Refer to
Prepare the Terraform Enterprise host environment
for details.
Create the configuration
Create a deployment configuration file for your runtime environment, such as a values.yaml if you are deploying to Kubernetes or a compose.yaml file if you are deploying to Docker, and specify the Terraform Enterprise configurations. The runtime platform starts the Linux container for Terraform Enterprise according to the settings defined in the configuration file. Refer to
Create deployment configuration overview
for additional information.
Install Terraform Enterprise
After completing the prerequisites, deploy Terraform Enterprise to your runtime environment. Refer to the following topics for instructions:
Deploy Terraform Enterprise to Docker
Deploy Terraform Enterprise to Kubernetes
Deploy Terraform Enterprise to OpenShift
Deploy Terraform Enterprise to Podman
Deploy Terraform Enterprise to Nomad
Review startup checks
When you start Terraform Enterprise, several startup checks also run to prevent errors related to invalid configurations or certificates, as well as other issues that could prevent the application from running successfully or safely. Refer to the
startup checks reference
for additional information.
Edit this page on GitHub