Automate Infrastructure on Any Cloud
Install
Tutorials
Documentation
What is Terraform?
Terraform is an infrastructure as code tool that lets you build, change, and version infrastructure safely and efficiently. This includes low-level components like compute instances, storage, and networking; and high-level components like DNS entries and SaaS features.
Learn more
Get Started
Follow a code-complete, hands-on tutorial to learn the Terraform basics with your favorite infrastructure provider.
Amazon Web Services
Azure
HCP Terraform
Google Cloud Platform
Oracle Cloud
Docker
HCP Terraform
Automate your infrastructure provisioning at any scale
Try HCP Terraform for free
Terraform Sandbox
1min
Terraform Sandbox
This sandbox contains preinstalled tools and services for you to experiment with Terraform.
Terraform
Interactive
Best Practices
Terraform style guide
Learn recommended style conventions for Terraform configuration and workflows.
Phases of Terraform adoption
Design your Terraform workflows for scale.
Featured Documentation
Configuration Language
Describe infrastructure in Terraform configuration language.
Terraform CLI
Learn Terraform's CLI-based workflows.
HCP Terraform
Collaborate with your team to provision infrastructure.
Popular Use Cases
25min
Deploy federated multi-cloud Kubernetes clusters
Use Terraform to provision Kubernetes clusters in the Azure and AWS clouds, deploy Consul Helm charts enabling Consul federation, and deploy an example application on both clusters.
Terraform
Consul
25min
Create preview environments with Terraform, GitHub Actions, and Vercel
Configure HCP Terraform and GitHub Actions to create frontend and backend preview environments for your application. Dynamically create and destroy preview environments by opening, merging and closing pull requests.
Terraform
12min
Deploy Lambda functions with TypeScript and CDK for Terraform
Provision multiple AWS Lambda functions, S3 Buckets, and IAM roles that share the same TypeScript code in stacks, using CDK for Terraform (CDKTF).
Terraform
43min
Build a golden image pipeline with HCP Packer
Create a golden image pipeline with HCP Packer. Build an application image on the base with Packer and provision it on AWS with Terraform.
Terraform
Packer
Get Certified
3 tutorials
Prepare for the Terraform Associate (003) Certification Exam
Prepare for your Terraform Associate certification exam. Choose to follow an in-depth guide or to review select exam topics depending on the kind of preparation support you need. Then review sample questions to learn what to expect on exam day.
Terraform
37 tutorials
Terraform Associate (003) Tutorials
Progress through these tutorials to prepare for the Terraform Associate (003) certification exam.
Terraform