Providers
Hands-on:
Try the
Perform CRUD Operations with Providers
tutorial.
Terraform relies on plugins called providers to interact with cloud providers,
SaaS providers, and other APIs.
Terraform configurations must declare which providers they require so that
Terraform can install and use them. Additionally, some providers require
configuration (like endpoint URLs or cloud regions) before they can be used.
What Providers Do
Each provider adds a set of
resource types
and/or
data sources
that Terraform can
manage.
Every resource type is implemented by a provider; without providers, Terraform
can't manage any kind of infrastructure.
Most providers configure a specific infrastructure platform (either cloud or
self-hosted). Providers can also offer local utilities for tasks like
generating random numbers for unique resource names.
Where Providers Come From
Providers are distributed separately from Terraform itself, and each provider
has its own release cadence and version numbers.
The
Terraform Registry
is the main directory of publicly available Terraform providers, and hosts
providers for most major infrastructure platforms.
Provider Documentation
Each provider has its own documentation, describing its resource
types and their arguments.
The
Terraform Registry
includes documentation for a wide range of providers developed by HashiCorp, third-party vendors, and our Terraform community. Use the
"Documentation" link in a provider's header to browse its documentation.
Provider documentation in the Registry is versioned; you can use the version
menu in the header to change which version you're viewing.
For details about writing, generating, and previewing provider documentation,
see the
provider publishing documentation
.
How to Use Providers
Providers are released separately from Terraform itself and have their own version numbers. In production we recommend constraining the acceptable provider versions in the configuration's provider requirements block, to make sure that
terraform init
does not install newer versions of the provider that are incompatible with the configuration.
To use resources from a given provider, you need to include some information
about it in your configuration. See the following pages for details:
Provider Requirements
documents how to declare providers so Terraform can install them.
Provider Configuration
documents how to configure settings for providers.
Dependency Lock File
documents an additional HCL file that can be included with a configuration,
which tells Terraform to always use a specific set of provider versions.
Provider Installation
HCP Terraform and Terraform Enterprise install providers as part of every run.
Terraform CLI finds and installs providers when
initializing a working directory
. It can
automatically download providers from a Terraform registry, or load them from
a local mirror or cache. If you are using a persistent working directory, you
must reinitialize whenever you change a configuration's providers.
To save time and bandwidth, Terraform CLI supports an optional plugin
cache. You can enable the cache using the
plugin_cache_dir
setting in
the CLI configuration file
.
To ensure Terraform always installs the same provider versions for a given
configuration, you can use Terraform CLI to create a
dependency lock file
and commit it to version control along with your configuration. If a lock file
is present, HCP Terraform, CLI, and Enterprise will all obey it when
installing providers.
Hands-on:
Try the
Lock and Upgrade Provider Versions
tutorial.
How to Find Providers
To find providers for the infrastructure platforms you use, browse
the providers section of the Terraform Registry
.
Some providers on the Registry are developed and published by HashiCorp, some
are published by platform maintainers, and some are published by users and
volunteers. The provider listings use the following badges to indicate who
develops and maintains a given provider.
Tier
Description
Namespace
Official
Official providers are owned and maintained by HashiCorp
hashicorp
Partner
Partner providers are written, maintained, validated and published by third-party companies against their own APIs. To earn a partner provider badge the partner must participate in the
HashiCorp Technology Partner Program
.
Third-party organization, e.g.
mongodb/mongodbatlas
Community
Community providers are published to the Terraform Registry by individual maintainers, groups of maintainers, or other members of the Terraform community.
Maintainer’s individual or organization account, e.g.
DeviaVir/gsuite
Archived
Archived Providers are Official or Partner Providers that are no longer maintained by HashiCorp or the community. This may occur if an API is deprecated or interest was low.
hashicorp
or third-party
How to Develop Providers
Providers are written in Go, using the Terraform Plugin SDK. For more
information on developing providers, see:
The
Plugin Development
documentation
The
Call APIs with Terraform Providers
tutorials
Edit this page on GitHub